
Q.2 Define organizational behaviour. Discuss the evolution of organizational behaviour.

Q.3 Elaborate on the contributions by F.W. Taylor & Henry Fayol towards the evolution of management thoughts.

Q.4(a) Discuss the leadership style that suits the HR Manager of the I.T. industry in the present era.
(b) Distinguish clearly between intrapersonal and interpersonal conflicts. Quote an example. How does it deteriorate teamwork in the organization?

5 Explain the nature, importance and purpose of planning.

Q.6(a) Discuss the functions of Trade Unions. What is the impact of globalization on Trade Unions?
(b) Explain the factors influencing industrial relations. Discuss the difference between traditional industrial and emerging employee relations (HRM).

7(a) List and explain the objectives of workers' participation in management.
(b) Explain the various forms of collective bargaining.

8 Explain the methods of training need assessment. Describe any three methods of executive training.

Q.9 Write short note on any two of the following:
(a) Factors contributing to political behaviour
(b) Job satisfaction
(c) Performance appraisal rating
(d) Induction retention of employees

HRDOB 2022

1. Answer any seven of the following:
A. What is retraining?
B. Define recruitment.
C. What do you understand by performance management?
D. Define negotiation.
E What is induction?
F. List any two functions of a trade union.
G. What is off-the-job training? Give two examples.
H. Define competency management.
I. What is HR planning?
J. Explain job satisfaction.

2.What is the significance of HR in today's global environment? Discuss the role of HR manager in today's organizations.

3. Discuss the errors that may take place in assessing employee performance.

4. What is the need for workers' participation in management? Explain any three methods through which workers can participate in management.

5. Discuss the evolution of organizational behaviour.

6.What is organizational politics? Discuss the factors contributing to organizational politics

7.What is personality? What factors determine personality

8. Elaborate the bargaining strategies in negotiation process.

9. Discuss the role of the State in industrial relations.