2022
=============
Q.2 Explain in detail the classical waterfall model with help of a neat and labelled diagram.
 
Q.3 (a) What is prototyping model? Explain the problems and advantages of prototyping in detail. 
(b) Develop a test case for any testing technique for 'student admission system. 

Q.4 (a) Define cohesion and coupling. Explain various types of each of them. 
(b) What are CASE tools? With a suitable diagram, explain the categories of CASE tools. 

Q.5 What are the different COCOMO models? Explain the phases involved in the detailed COCOMO model.

Q.6 (a) What are the types of user-interface design? 
(b) Explain the stages of object-oriented design process. 

Q.7 Write short notes on the following: 
(a) Unified modelling language 
(b) Object-oriented analysis modelling 
(c) Object-oriented design concepts and methods 

Q.8 Explain coding standards, coding guidelines and code review techniques in detail. 

Q.9 (a) What is software quality? Discuss software quality attributes. 

(b) Discuss the differences between object-oriented and function-oriented designs

2021
===========
2. (a) Give the full form of CASE. Draw CASE diagram showing all components. Describe each component briefly. 
(b) Draw the first two levels of DFDs for an Online Examination System'. Make necessary assumptions.
 
3. (a) Prepare SRS for an Inventory Management System' for a retail medical store. Also explain the risk assessment and management in brief. Make necessary assumptions. 
(b) Explain cohesion and coupling. How are the concepts of coupling and cohesion useful in arriving at good software design? 

4. (a) What is software quality assurance? Explain different quality matrices. 
(b) What is cyclomatic complexity? How is it computed? Calculate cyclomatic complexity for the program to find the smallest of three numbers. 

5. (a) What are project metrices? Explain different types of project metrics with an example for each. https://www.akubihar.com 
(b) What are the main objectives of software verification and validation? Explain different verification validation techniques. and 

6(a) Explain any two of the risk management techniques with suitable 
(b) Write the structure of SRS as per IEEE standards. 

7. (a) Explain Agile process advantage. Explain any process model. with its one Agile 
    (b) Write the structure of SRS as per IEEE standards.


8. (a) What are the different methods used for estimating cost and effort required for completing a project successfully? Explain any one method in detail. 
(b) What is software quality? What are three dimensions of software quality? Explain briefly. 

9. (a) Explain function point based matrices with suitable example. 
(b) Write short notes on the following: 
(i) Project management 
(ii) Test case design 
(iii) Software reliability